Mentor review of the repository
This project is trying to do something very good: build a miniature, educational transformer stack from first principles, starting from a toy GPT and evolving toward modern LLM components. In that sense, the direction is strong. The current implementation in gpt2.py, mha.py, and trainer.py is readable and teachable, which matters a lot for an open-source learning repo.

What the code is trying to achieve
It is aiming for a clean progression:

tokenization and data windows
embeddings and positional information
attention and feedforward blocks
a full transformer-style GPT forward pass
a simple training loop with checkpointing and generation
That is the right mental model. Experienced ML engineers often build systems this way first, before introducing more advanced pieces like RoPE, RMSNorm, MoE, or KV cache.

What is good
The module boundaries are mostly intuitive.
The code is easy to follow for someone learning transformer internals.
The repo has a strong “from-scratch” educational value, which is exactly what you want at this stage.
Hidden issues and why they matter
The architecture is still too tightly coupled.
The training loop in trainer.py is doing too many jobs at once: optimization, checkpointing, generation, logging, and scheduling. That will become painful as soon as you add mixed precision, gradient accumulation, or richer metrics.

The attention layer is fine for a first version, but it will block future evolution.
The current MHA module is a single monolithic block. That is acceptable now, but it will become awkward when you later want GQA, MLA, or a cache-aware interface.

The design is still more “toy prototype” than “research-grade implementation.”
You are using learned positional embeddings and a simple GPT-style stack, which is valid for learning, but it is not yet aligned with the design choices used in GPT-2, LLaMA, or modern decoder-only models.

The data pipeline had a real interface mismatch.
I corrected that in dataloader.py so it now supports both config-object and keyword-based usage. This is exactly the kind of subtle bug that appears when a wrapper API evolves over time.

Scorecard
Correctness: 7/10

The core forward pass is conceptually correct for a toy decoder-only transformer.
The main weakness is that the abstraction is still simple and not yet robust enough for edge cases.
Engineering: 7/10

Readable and understandable.
The main issue is coupling and lack of modular separation in the trainer and attention stack.
Performance: 5/10

No mixed precision, no gradient accumulation, no cache-aware inference, and no attention optimization.
This is fine for a learning repo, but it will not scale gracefully.
Research fidelity: 6/10

It is GPT-like in spirit, but not yet faithful to the architectural choices of modern LLMs such as LLaMA or GPT-2-era refinements.
Future scalability: 4/10

The current layout will make RoPE, GQA, MoE, LoRA, and FlashAttention harder than they need to be unless you refactor soon.
Production readiness: 4/10

Good for education and experimentation, not yet a library-quality foundation.
Interview readiness: 8/10

You will look strong if you can explain why each module exists and how it maps to transformer theory.
Interviewers will also notice that the abstractions are still a bit immature.
What I would change next
If you want this repo to become genuinely impressive, I would prioritize these in order:

Refactor the trainer into smaller pieces

one component for optimization
one for checkpointing
one for metrics
one for generation
Make attention configurable early

introduce a clean interface that can later support MHA, GQA, and MLA without rewriting the model.
Add one modern feature at a time

RoPE
RMSNorm
SwiGLU
KV cache
Strengthen tests around the actual model behavior

attention mask correctness
embedding shape and causal behavior
loss/forward pass sanity
Verified status
I verified the current state by running:

pytest -q → 2 passed in 3.94s
That means the repository is now passing its visible test coverage, and the remaining work is architectural maturity rather than basic correctness.

My overall advice is simple: keep the repo educational, but start refactoring now before the design debt compounds. That is how strong ML engineers avoid building fragile systems later.